There once was an angel who fell down from heaven...
...or was it a devil who had escaped hell?...
I can hardly remember anymore.
They came to an island where a long forgotten god lay dormant beneath the mountain.
The people of the island, in their hubris, had built a monument to the moon.
The monument shone night and day so that the people might never fall under the mountain’s shadow.
“Why do you forget the mountain?” the angel inquired.
“We wish to sing and dance, night and day, under the brilliance of the sun and the moon!” the island’s people replied.
Thinking to help the people in their desire for brilliance, the angel turned the island to the south, where the midday sun could shine on the people now unobscured by the mountain.
The people had lived on the island for generations, and only the eldest among them could say why they had fled there -- though they would never speak of it.
Seeing the sun rise on the wrong side of the island, however, the eldest among the island’s people quickly fled into the mountain’s caves.
All the while, the people continued to dance and sing to their monument.
The sun continued its ascent.
As the sun reached its zenith, the eldest looked down from the caves and saw what had become of their people.
The angel, hearing the silence, looked around in confusion.
“Surely those who worship the moon and the sun must bear their wisdom,” it said.
“Surely those who seek eternal brilliance are prepared to receive all of it!”
The eldest and last of the people, for the first time in generations, opened their mouths to reply to the angel:
“We who first fled to the island once again are what remain of our people, who in our time did also seek brilliance.”
“We who value freedom above all else vowed silence, so that those blinded by brilliance might not be chained by our words.”
“We who also love brilliance, but are not blinded by it, know too that no man may receive brilliance all at once.”
“In our wisdom we traveled by night until we found this island, whose mountain would allow us all but the sun’s greatest brilliance at its zenith.”
“We will never know eternal brilliance by our eyes, but we have come to know it over the eternal comings and goings of its gentle rise and set.”
“So it is that we came to love the mountain, for in its shade we received eternal brilliance.”
The angel turned away, not understanding;
The eldest and last of the island’s people seemed content in their fate, however, so with satisfaction the angel left the island and continued on its journey.